1. Discrete data:

1.1. Were discrete water-level data entered into GWSI?

1.2. Were all corrections applied properly to the discrete data, including corrections related to tape calibration, measuring point, and datum changes.

1.3. Was a hydrograph of new and historic discrete values created and reviewed?

1.4. Were water-level measurement policies followed?

1.5. Were SVMobileAQ XML files or other original record archived?

1.6. Were discrete data discussed in the Station Analysis?

2. Field notes:

2.1. Were routine and non-routine field-visit activities documented?

2.2. Were field notes adequately reviewed for completeness and accuracy (and corrected, if necessary)?

2.3. Were reviews documented in accordance with WSC procedures? (if not, this task must be completed before approval)

3. Station level notes:

3.1. Was the date of last visual/manual check of vertical relationship between measuring point and reference marks documented?

3.2. Are levels or reference point inspections overdue? If stable, confirm every 3 to 5 years

3.3. Date of last station levels?

3.4. If levels run during the record period,

3.4.1. Have levels data been reviewed for accuracy?

3.4.2. Have levels been updated in the Historic Levels Summary and Station Description?

3.5. Was a datum correction identified (if no, go on to section 4)?

3.5.1. Is the presumed cause for the datum correction explained in the Station Analysis and is the explanation valid?

3.5.2. Does the application of the correction to the time series agree with the presumed cause and explanation?

3.5.3. Were discrete water-level measurements properly adjusted for the period based upon the datum correction?

3.5.4. Were land surface datum and datum history updated in NWIS?

3.5.5. Does the application of the correction extend into a period of previously approved data? If so, was the approved period evaluated in accordance with applicable revision criteria?

4. Station Description:

4.1. Was the Station Description updated to reflect any changes that occurred or were made during the record period?

5. Water-level edits

5.1. Check instantaneous values for periods of missing data and spikes/anomalies.

5.2. Are thresholds set to adequately manage data spikes or anomalies?

6. Water-level corrections:

6.1. Are water-level corrections reasonable for the site conditions and measurement method limitations?

6.2. Do applied water-level corrections agree with reasons provided in Station Analysis?

6.3. Are water-level corrections applied correctly in the database?

7. Qualifiers and other metadata

7.1. Are appropriate data qualifiers assigned or otherwise described as expected by use of metadata?

8. Daily values

8.1. Are partial days adequately labeled and does the time-series software show evidence that they have been reviewed?

9. Hydrographic comparison and review

9.1. Have hydrographic comparisons been adequately made and discussed?

9.2. Does the period reviewed look reasonable when compared to the period of record?

10. Manuscript

10.1. Have SIMS Manuscript elements been updated as needed?

11. Approval Summary: Provide brief assessment of the record period in context of the findings outlined above. Discuss analyst’s evaluation and quality of groundwater level record. Add the approval summary to the Approval Comments for the period in RMS.