1. Field Notes, Calibration Notes, Station Description:

1.1. Were field notes, and calibration notes adequately reviewed and were these reviews documented in accordance with WSC procedures? (if not, this task must be completed before approval)

1.2. Have measurements, field notes, level notes, and other information been properly stored / archived in accordance with WSC procedures?

1.3. Has the Station Description been properly updated to reflect any changes made or observed during analysis period?

2. Calibrations:

2.1. Date of last calibration:

2.2. Is a calibration overdue? Although calibrations are not required for analysis, precipitation records cannot be approved without "bookending" successful calibrations. Annual calibrations are required; if water year is complete and a calibration has not been performed, a calibration should be scheduled immediately. If more frequent approval is desired, then WSC policy regarding calibration frequency should be revised accordingly.

2.3. Was the instrument replaced or calibrated during the analysis period? (if no, go on to section 3)

2.3.1. Was the calibration done in compliance with OSW TM 2006.01 and documented following procedures outlined in the WSC’s Quality Assurance Plan (if not, period cannot be approved until a valid calibration is performed/documented)?

2.4. Did the calibration error exceed 5% (if no, go on to section 3)

2.4.1. If the calibration error exceeded 10%, all data since collected since the last successful calibration should have been totally removed from the database.

2.4.2. Remediation actions should be fully documented (instrument replaced, leveled or other reparations made, followed by a successful calibration).

3. Edits:

3.1. Were periods of erroneous recorded precipitation amounts (due to clogs, snow/ice, and damage to gage) removed?

3.1.1. Was this adequately discussed in the station analysis?

3.2. Was backup data available, downloaded, and used to fill any gaps in transmissions?

3.2.1. Was this adequately discussed in the station analysis?

4. Corrections: Corrections should generally not be applied without compelling justifications as to the amount and timing. When applied, ensure the rationale and implementation are adequate.

5. Estimates: Are estimates appropriate, consistent, and developed using recommended methods and with due consideration of all available information?

6. Hyetographic Comparison: Have hyetographic comparisons been adequately made and discussed?

7. Daily Values

7.1. Examine computed daily values for accuracy, completeness and proper use of qualifiers.

8. Manuscript

8.1. Have SIMS Manuscript elements been updated as needed?

9. Approval Evaluation: Provide brief assessment of the analysis period in context of the findings outlined above. Discuss analyst's evaluation of record and provide your evaluation

10. Operational Follow Up: List suggested follow-up such as corrective actions or other needed information, measurements, or observations.

Versioning information:
October 2017: In sections 2.4 and 2.4.2 "5%" replaced with "10%"
June 2020: In section 2.4 "10%" replaced with "5%"; In section 2.4.1 added "If the calibration error exceeded 10%,"; In section 2.4.2 removed "Regardless, data in the previous calibration period should be removed from the database if the calibration error exceeded 10%."